{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1251\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Bold;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f2\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid201\'01\'00;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid3}
{\list\listtemplateid4\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid301\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid4}
{\list\listtemplateid5\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid401\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid5}
{\list\listtemplateid6\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid501\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid6}
{\list\listtemplateid7\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid601\'01\'00;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid7}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}{\listoverride\listid4\listoverridecount0\ls4}{\listoverride\listid5\listoverridecount0\ls5}{\listoverride\listid6\listoverridecount0\ls6}{\listoverride\listid7\listoverridecount0\ls7}}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sa321\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs48 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Yandex.Books Data Analysis\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298\partightenfactor0

\fs36 \cf0 Author\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Chertova Nataliya\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs36 \cf0 Date\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0
\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 June 05, 2025\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs36 \cf0 Project Overview\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 This project focuses on analyzing user activity data from the Yandex Books service. The primary goal is to understand user behavior, particularly focusing on the time spent reading and listening to books within the application, and to test a specific hypothesis related to user loyalty and Lifetime Value (LTV).\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs36 \cf0 Problem Statement\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 The project aims to investigate whether users who contribute higher Lifetime Value (LTV) are more loyal, which is hypothesized to manifest as spending, on average, more time reading and listening to books in the application.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs36 \cf0 Project Goals and Objectives\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf0 Project Goal\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 To analyze data received from the Yandex Books service and test the hypothesis that users who bring higher LTV are more loyal, and therefore, spend, on average, more time reading and listening to books in the application.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 Project Objectives\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl0
\fs24 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	1	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Data Loading and Evaluation:
\f1\b0  Download and evaluate the provided data, specifically user data from Moscow and St. Petersburg with their total activity hours from the 
\f2\fs26 yandex_knigi_data.csv
\f1\fs24  file.\
\ls3\ilvl0
\f0\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	2	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Data Preprocessing:
\f1\b0  Check for duplicate user IDs, compare group sizes, their statistics, and distribution.\
\ls3\ilvl0
\f0\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	3	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Statistical Hypothesis Testing:
\f1\b0  Statistically test the hypothesis that users from St. Petersburg spend, on average, more time reading and listening to books in the application than users from Moscow. This will be done using a one-sided hypothesis test with two samples.\
\ls3\ilvl0
\f0\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	4	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Analytical Report Preparation:
\f1\b0  Prepare an analytical report summarizing the data analysis results.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs36 \cf0 Hypothesis Testing: St. Petersburg vs. Moscow User Activity\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 The core hypothesis tested in this project is: 
\f0\b users from St. Petersburg spend, on average, more time reading and listening to books in the application than users from Moscow.
\f1\b0 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\ls4\ilvl0
\f0\b \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Null Hypothesis (
\f1\b0 H0 
\f0\b ):
\f1\b0  \uc0\u956 SPb \u8804 \u956 Moscow (The average activity time of users in St. Petersburg is not greater than in Moscow.)\
\ls4\ilvl0
\f0\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Alternative Hypothesis (
\f1\b0 H1 
\f0\b ):
\f1\b0  \uc0\u956 SPb >\u956 Moscow (The average activity time of users in St. Petersburg is greater, and this difference is statistically significant.)\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs36 \cf0 Analytical Report Summary\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf0 Test Methodology\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 For the analysis, Student's t-test was chosen. This test is optimal for the task conditions, involving two samples that meet the required criteria:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\ls5\ilvl0
\f0\b \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Normality of the sample mean:
\f1\b0  Ensured due to a sufficient amount of data.\
\ls5\ilvl0
\f0\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Independence of observations:
\f1\b0  Ensured by excluding overlapping users.\
\ls5\ilvl0
\f0\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Equality of sample variances:
\f1\b0  Confirmed by Fisher's F-test.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 A significance level (\uc0\u945 ) of 5% was adopted for hypothesis testing, which is a standard value for this type of test.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 Test Results\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\ls6\ilvl0
\fs24 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 P-value:
\f1\b0  0.33\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 Conclusion\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 Based on the obtained p-value of 0.33, which is greater than the chosen significance level of 0.05, we 
\f0\b fail to reject the null hypothesis
\f1\b0 .\
This indicator suggests that we do not have enough statistically significant evidence to claim that the average user activity in hours in the two groups (Moscow and St. Petersburg) differs. In other words, based on this analysis, we cannot conclude that users from St. Petersburg spend, on average, more time reading and listening to books in the application than users from Moscow.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 Possible Explanations for the Results\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 This result can be explained by the following:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\ls7\ilvl0
\f0\b \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	1	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 No True Difference:
\f1\b0  There truly is no significant difference in average activity time between users from St. Petersburg and Moscow. If this is the case, then the LTV difference (if observed) between cities is influenced by factors other than average time spent reading/listening in the app.\
\ls7\ilvl0
\f0\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	2	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Insufficient Test Power (Type II Error):
\f1\b0  There might be a difference between the groups, but the test was not powerful enough to detect it. This could be due to factors like sample size, variability within the data, or the effect size being too small to be detected with the current setup.\
}